so how do you make yourself
uncomfortable enough to facilitate
change I don't think the challenge is in
making yourself uncomfortable although
you can say that discomfort is a good
indicator for change so in my experience
the process of change itself is
uncomfortable and is like hard right so
like I'll give you guys an example so
what I was telling crucify think the
challenge like it's kind of weird that
when he starts to make progress he
starts to feel depressed and suicidal
like what is up with that right like how
does that work and I'm sorry guys but
that's just how our mind works our mind
prefers the comfortable to the good this
is important to understand your mind
prefers that which you know to that
which is good so if you think about why
are people in abusive relationships like
people who get into abusive
relationships often times get into
another abusive relationship they have
strings of abusive relationships and
it's because it's something that they're
familiar with it's comfortable even if
it's painful it's comfortable and so for
crucifix and the pain that he inflicts
upon himself if he doesn't do anything
that he knows he can with saying that he
knows he can survive it even though it
makes him depressed he can survive it
what he doesn't know is what's gonna
happen if he gives it as all what's
gonna happen if he actually tries
because he has these aspirations and if
he starts working at a call center he's
not moving towards his aspirations is
working at a call center the same as
giving up on his aspirations that's the
challenge he has to face so you know my
sense is that you try to change and then
you notice that when you try to make a
change you start to become uncomfortable
right that's that's the issue
okay I identify a lot with cruces
problems I read and research a lot about
diet but I still fall into the pit of
grabbing the comfort foods off the store
shelf even though I try not to keep it
in my house I still go to the
drive-through two to three times a week
even though I have good food at home and
haven't done anything to really earn it
okay so I think that this is a problem
once again of like minut understanding
so when we think about crucifix gives us
the big picture and the big picture is
okay I make progress and then I give up
and then one day I go to work and I want
y'all to just think about this
so he's like one day I go to work I do
it for a week and then I just quit but
when did cruces to something new about
himself when did we make progress it
wasn't looking at day seven it wasn't
looking at the end it was looking at day
three it was looking at like what
happens to him when he starts to make a
change and then he's like wait wait a
minute when I start to make a change I
start to actually like feel more
depressed like the more the better I do
for myself the more I feel depressed and
that's not something that he saw because
he was looking at the end result he was
looking at the end right it's kind of
like saying I mean what's that you know
it's sort of like if my house burns down
I can say like oh my house burned down
but like when the house is fully on fire
and you're saying like my house keeps
burning down like that's not the problem
the problem is like first of all where
did the fires start and secondly like
how did the fire spread so the question
I mean so this person says I identify a
lot with cruces problems I read and
research a lot about diet yeah that's
intellectual I still fall into the pit
of grabbing comfort fruits off the store
shelf even though I try not to keep it
in the house so the question is like
what happens in that moment right the
question is when you go to the grocery
store how are you feeling how hungry are
you like that's where the money is what
mindset are you in when you go to the
grocery store is it like advertising
that suckers you in what I still go to
the drive-through two to three times a
week even though I have good food at
home the question is like what happens
before you're at the drive-through
are you at home and then you're like I
don't want to eat any of this and then
you get up and you go to the drive-thru
are you driving home from work and you
see it you're feeling hungry because you
skipped lunch that day and then you kind
of like pick something up right that's
where the money is so you've got to like
really and this is what I was saying the
crucifix you have to you need
understanding understanding and
awareness awareness of what is going on
inside you because what I'm hearing is
the end result I'm not hearing the
process and if you want to make a change
in your life it's not about focusing on
the end result you have to make a change
in the process if you want a different
outcome you need to change your process
there's no process in this question so
that's what you need to look at look
into right where is that where did it's
where did the decision to make bad food
start did it start by skipping lunch did
it start start by skipping dinner and
did it start by working too much did it
start by not packing your bag to start
by not waking up early enough where did
that start didn't start because you are
in love with someone and they don't text
you back it can start in all kinds of
places right so you have to look at
where the process starts and how it
progresses that's how you make a change
in the end how can you overcome the ego
that arises within great question so the
first thing is to recognize what is ego
and what is not ego right so in it as we
saw today like arrogance what we think
of as standard arrogance like if someone
is nice to other people in kind and
compassionate we think of that person is
not arrogant but that person still has
ego and that's because our understanding
of the word ego is not as good as like
what the Yogi's understood right there
are subtle kinds of ego there are
different kinds of ego is the first
thing that you've got to do is recognize
when your ego is active right recognize
when you have thoughts of I'm too good
for this or I'm better than other people
so here this the here of the clues of
ego ego pumps yourself up and knocks
other people down and ego makes
comparisons so anytime you make a
comparison between two people that's ego
so the first thing you've got to do is
see it arising
so see it arising and then notice it and
then as you notice it you begin to get
this capacity of saying oh that's my ego
I'm not gonna do that right but you
can't do that if you're on autopilot
like you have to notice it and say like
oh that's my anxiety like I know you
guys have done this where everyone's
done this where it's like I don't want
to jump in the water and I'm anxious
that I'm gonna feel cold and you
acknowledge that you don't want to jump
in the water and then you're like okay
time to jump into the water like you can
separate a part of your mind aside and
choose to act independently of it but
you can't do that without the separation
so you've got to do that thank you for
the host Melina so okay do people I
guess I okay so the other thing about
ego let me just do a quick introduction
because we have a host so my name is all
akeno's I'm a psychiatrist practicing in
in Boston Massachusetts this is a
healthy gamer GG stream our goal is to
help people understand themselves better
and therefore like make improvements in
their lives so we do interviews we talk
a lot about some kind of psychology
spirituality things like that and we
also like I teach meditation on stream
because I think that's important and
today we had an interview about sort of
someone who felt super stuck in life and
felt like they quote/unquote suck at
life and how they couldn't do anything
well they weigh like 500 pounds and
they're not able to lose weight and
things like that and what we kind of
tunnel down to is that he's got some
interesting patterns of wanting to stay
stuck and that he actually has a problem
with his ego so right now we're kind of
talking about ego and what that means so
the other thing about ego this is
another cure for ego is spend time in
nature so you guys have to understand
that when you ego relies on comparison
right so like when when like when
crucifies making a statement he's like
oh yeah I'm a nobody like that's an ego
statement that's coming from his ego
because he's he's comparing himself to
other people so if you want to get away
from comparing yourself to other people
what you need to do is get away from
people so when you spend time in nature
like that's not going to build ego
that's gonna build confidence and
confidence and ego are actually like on
a seesaw so the more confident you are
the less your ego is active and the more
your ego is active the less confident
you are because the sense of confidence
isn't something isn't a sense of self
that's based on comparison it's a sense
of self that's based internally so
meditation leads to confidence like
understanding yourself irrespective of
other people let go for a hike or like
you know go swimming in a lake or the
ocean or something like that and
spending time with nature when you're
not near other people like if I if I go
out for a hike and I say I'm gonna climb
to the top of that Boulder and I succeed
and there's no one around like I can
celebrate but I'm just celebrating for
myself I'm not showing off for anyone
there's no chance for ego and then if I
fail like that's also like my failure
that's personal it's just like okay I
didn't do it there's no shame it's just
like I said it I set a target for myself
and I didn't do it it's like success or
failure becomes internal it doesn't
become external because Nature doesn't
care Nature doesn't care what you decide
to do nature's is gonna be nature but
other people care and that that sort of
engenders ego and then you start making
comparisons and how what do people think
about you and how do you feel about
yourself and and so just spend time away
from people and I personally have
benefited a lot from spending time with
nature so when I was like you know I
started like doing some like hiking and
like climbing and stuff like that
climbed a bunch of mountains and in
Colorado climbed Kilimanjaro like I
think those are all wonderful
experiences and I think you should spend
more time in nature if you want to
overcome your ego because nature will
put your ego in check real quick how do
I get
over my fear of establishing a permanent
personal identity because I feel like
nothing is good enough okay how do I get
over my fear of establishing a permanent
personal identity because I feel like
nothing is good enough okay
problem number one is you don't have a
personal permanent identity identity is
not permanent right identity changes
over time so if we think about like my
identity it was like I thought I was a
super smart kid right like I was a smart
kid and like the other kids were stupid
and I got bullied a lot in high school
in middle school in elementary school so
I had my thing which was like I was
smarter than these kids so I became a
smart kid and then like in college like
I was afraid of being stupid so I didn't
study because if I didn't study and I
failed a test then I'm not stupid I'm
just lazy but heaven forbid I do
anything if I studied for the test and I
got a B that would be freaking
humiliating
so then like my identity became
something bad right I was like oh I'm a
smart kid I'm too good for college I
could get a 4.0 if I want to but I just
choose not to or I'm lazy that's what my
identity became then I went to India and
it became oh I want to become a monk
because screw this world there's ego
there too it was like oh I can't cut it
in the real world so I'm gonna say I'm
better than the real world all these
other materialistic noobs I'm a
spiritual expert and everyone else is a
materialistic noob so I'm gonna become a
monk and then I finally noticed my ego
and I was like well that's kind of silly
so then I went to medical school and I
became a doctor and I started helping
people and now then I was like a Harvard
Andy right so I'm a Harvard trained
psychiatrist and I was like that Andy
for a little while and then now I'm not
now I'm just like a streamer on Twitch
and I'm just another noob on Twitch
right it's like and and so your your
identity first of all changes over time
and that if you think nothing is good
enough that too is like ego why don't
like you guys understand like you're not
good enough that's what crucifies to
crucify talking about having aspirations
that are far above what he's capable of
right now so that's not good enough so
he chooses not to do it so what you need
to do is first of all understand that
identity is not permanent and secondly
like it's not about what's good enough
like good enough is always gonna be a
failure you just have to do what is like
do what you can do what you can today
and as long as you do the best job that
you can today you will be amazed at
where you end up in the best job that
you did today may not live up to the
expectations that you set for yourself
because of your ego which is fine but
you just keep on working today today
today today today and then one day you
may feel good enough because I know I
mean it's it's surprising people think
that once you you know end up as a
physician at the Harvard Medical School
you probably think you're good enough
you guys would be stunned how many
people here feel insufficient and like
Impostors and like they need to be
better because they're not chair of the
department they're not chief of the
department this person got a five
million dollar grant and I only got a 1
million dollar grant
so if you think that good enough comes
from an external source you're just
wrong
no matter what you do in life it's not
going to be satisfactory if you're
looking externally for satisfaction it's
just not gonna happen
temporarily maybe but being good enough
is not about anything you do out there
it's about what you feel in here and
that's not some like Oprah level BS it's
like actually true right it's actually
true like that's literally how our mind
functions that contentment really does
come from within and that learning to be
detached from the outcomes of your
actions and accepting yourself for who
you are is like actually how you become
content what ask Rousseff's next step so
I think we talked about this so I think
he needs awareness of the processes that
go on within his mind so he's focusing
on the like the last terminal thing he's
focusing on the outcome where he's he
needs to really see these forces arise
with him notice them because once you
notice them then you get distanced from
them and once you have distance from
them you can control them that's how it
works it's like you become kind of a
yeah I mean it's simple you once you are
aware of something then you can start to
exert influence over it right and when I
work with people they even say to me oh
like I was sitting there and then I
realized oh that's my anxiety again
there goes my anxiety silly anxiety why
are you thinking that okay that's just
my anxiety okay I don't have to listen
to it and once you're able to do that
it's not that the anxiety actually goes
away it's just like you're like oh
that's my anxiety there are some days
that you the anxiety is so loud that you
have to listen to it there are some days
most days as you meditate and you get
better and you learn yourself that you
know you'll learn how to control it so
awareness is the next step how do you
advise shakings I okay
oh man I wish I had caught this question
so crucify did you give up on YouTube
content you just need to keep doing it
if the content is good you can work on
promoting that work so I hope crease its
this let me just see if I can I'll DM em
later that's a good thought thank you
for sending that so how much meditation
do I need to do before I see legitimate
changes a month a year so I'd say two
months so the clinical studies on
meditation tend to tend to show like I'm
just simplifying right so they're like
hundreds or thousands of studies on
meditation here's my general conclusion
for people who want a simple answer the
studies on meditation whether you're
looking at arthritis anxiety IBS all
kinds of different stuff blood pressure
show that to get a clinical improvement
in symptoms that is statistically
significant
you need to practice for 20 minutes at
least three times a week if not five
times a week for eight weeks so the goal
that you should shoot for is 20 minutes
of practice five days a week for eight
weeks to see a clinically significant
benefit now practically so a clinically
significant benefit over the course of a
trial is different from like individual
change right so a lot of times all see
changes with people like over the course
of minutes so when you meditate here on
stream how do you feel at the end of
that like that's pretty cool so
generally speaking I think over the
course of eight weeks is what it takes
to start to see neuroplasticity and
change in your general level of function
not just the post meditative state but
like the way that you feel all day so if
you take people with anxiety and they
rank their anxiety as a seven out of ten
and they meditate for eight weeks it
like drops down to a four so eight weeks
twenty minutes a day
[Music]
huh okay can you explain the elitist
mindset and how to overcome it so the
leanest mindset is ego right like that's
it's everything that I've been talking
about it's ego if you think you're
better than another human being that's
ego now you can be better at certain
things but like if you derive solace or
a sense of identity out of you being
better than other people that's ego so
just notice it notice that your least
notice that you have these thoughts and
try to figure out where these thoughts
come from the other question about the
elitist mindset is what triggers it so
this is also huge when I'm talking about
noticing the patterns of ego ego is
triggered by things usually by negative
emotion so the more negative emotion
you're dealing with the more egotistical
you're gonna become so the more that you
feel hurt or ashamed or that someone
else is like better than you the more
egotistical you're going to become and
so the root of ego is actually negative
emotion most of the time at least in
this scenario so I think everything I've
talked about ego is like the elitist
mindset I think those go hand in hand
so someone says I have a friend who I
suspect may be going through the same
think rusev has been going through how
could I address it for my friend so two
things right so I think you could get
professional help and and you could also
have them watch the video because like
that's why we do videos right and by the
way I just got into one of my mods just
said that we got some donations oh wow
so obligatory ham thank you very much
for the hundred dollar donation
stolt Meister for 10 bucks and then
ank's uh for five bucks BM davis for 50
bucks mic for a hundred bucks and
defender Shea for twenty
Wow guys thank you so much like that's
amazing
and Clarence $20
Khaleel Wow 11 bucks some guy $5 and the
subs that's that's awesome yeah calm
down guys I'm not here to earn money I
really do appreciate the donations they
helped fuel the things that we're trying
to do which I'll talk about in a second
let me just finish this question okay
okay so you know you can tell them to
watch it because that's why we do it and
hopefully they'll understand something
and then they can go see a therapist and
if you want to help them you can also
watch what we do and you guys can watch
my videos you could start doing what I'm
doing you can also sign up to be a
recovery coach once again or you can
become a clinician but if you want to
help someone you know those are my
options the whole reason that we did the
coaching thing is because a lot of
people are like hey I'd like to help and
I was like okay so you can go become a
therapist or you know you can become a
psychologist and they're like yeah but I
want to help like sooner than six years
from now so I scratch my head and I was
like okay they're a bunch of people that
need help they're a bunch of people that
want to help can we put that together in
some way and actually train people who
can help I don't know but we're gonna
try so that that's something you can do
okay last question and then we need to
figure out who are we who okay box box
okay
so last question is going to be
[Music]
okay is being disinterested when seeing
success a form of ego is being
disinterested when you see success a
form of ego no I don't think so it
depends on what you mean by disinterest
so there is detachment from success
which is the opposite of ego that is
vital yeah Vairagya is detachment from
the outcomes of your actions by Wragge
is awesome that's the goal Vairagya is
to be able to do your best and then
leave the result up to I mean
traditionally they say God but you know
let go of the result so vairagya is to
say I'm gonna study as hard as I can and
if I get an a fantastic if I fail that's
fine to that I'm gonna study as hard as
I can and that's what I'm gonna focus on
and the result is gonna be what its
gonna be if that's what you're doing
that's fantastic if you see someone
else's success and you don't feel happy
about it
that could be different because you may
actually be saying like oh I'm not
interested in that out of a very subtle
ego there may be a subtle form of
jealousy that you kind of like turn into
disinterest when you see success like oh
I don't care about that like that guy
did something amazing like oh that's
cool he could have done nothing would
make no difference so
that that is those are different things
it just depends on subtly like what's
going on in your mind it's a good
question because I mean it's a it's a
subtle difference but very important one
right so are you detached because
Vairagya has nothing to do with other
people at all has to do with like
expectation and letting go of
expectation yourself and just devoting
yourself to the action as opposed to the
result